README.md, before:

# wac - WebAssembly in C

A Minimal WebAssembly interpreter written in C. Supports the
WebAssembly MVP (minimum viable product) version of the WebAssembly
specification.

There are two different builds of wac:

* **wac**: (WebAssembly in C) Minimal client with an interactive REPL
  mode. Designed to run standalone wasm files compiled with wast2wasm.
  Passes most spec tests apart from some multi-module import/export
  tests.
* **wace**: (WebAssembly in C with Emscripten) Client with host
  library/memory integration. Designed to run wasm code that has been
  built using Emscripten (using `-s SIDE_MODULE=1`).

## Prerequisites

To build wac and wace you need a 32-bit version of gcc and 32-bit
versions of SDL2 and libedit. On 64-bit Ubuntu/Debian these can be
installed like this:

```
dpkg --add-architecture i386
apt-get update
apt-get install lib32gcc-4.9-dev libSDL2-dev:i386 libedit-dev:i386
```

To compile wast source files to binary wasm modules you will need the
wast2wasm tool from [wabt](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt). To
compile C programs to wasm modules you will need
[emscripten](https://github.com/kripken/emscripten) with
[binaryen](https://github.com/WebAssembly/binaryen).

As an alternative to downloading and building the above tools, the
`kanaka/webassembly` docker image (1.5GB) has 32-bit gcc
compiler/libraries, emscripten, binaryen, and wabt (wast2wasm)
preinstalled. The docker image can be started with appropriate file
mounts like this:

```
docker run -v `pwd`:/wac -w /wac -it kanaka/webassembly bash
```

The build commands below can be run within the docker container.


## wac usage

Build wac:

```bash
$ make wac
```

Use `wast2wasm` to compile a simple wast program to a wasm:

```bash
$ make examples_wast/arith.wasm
```

Now load the compiled wasm file and invoke some functions:

```bash
$./wac examples_wast/arith.wasm add 2 3
0x5:i32
$./wac examples_wast/arith.wasm mul 7 8
0x38:i32
```

wac also supports a very simple REPL (read-eval-print-loop) mode that
runs commands in the form of `FUNC ARG...`:

```
$ ./wac --repl examples_wast/arith.wasm
> sub 10 5
0x5:i32
> div 13 4
0x3:i32
```

## wace usage

Build wace:

```bash
$ make wace
```

Use emscripten/binaryen to compile some simple C programs and run them
using wace:

```bash
$ make examples_c/hello1.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello1.wasm
hello world

$ make examples_c/hello2.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello2.wasm
hello malloc people

$ make examples_c/hello_sdl.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello_sdl.wasm
INFO: OpenGL shaders: ENABLED
INFO: Created renderer: opengl
# Blue Window appears for 2 seconds.
Done.
```

## Running WebAssembly spec tests

wac includes a `runtest.py` test driver which can be used for running
tests from the WebAssembly specification.

Check out the spec:

```
git clone https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec
```

Run the `func.wast` test file (to test function calls) from the spec:

```
./runtest.py --wast2wasm /path/to/wast2wasm --interpreter ./wac spec/test/core/func.wast
```


## License

MPL-2.0

Commit message:

Complete thunk refactor. GL triangle demo works.
- Generate thunks (out and in) using gen_thunks.py
- In thunk_out and setup_thunk_in caculate a thunk mask (return type
  and arg types) with get_thunk_mask.
- Set table memory to start at 0 also and use tableBase for the actual
  start address.
- To support inbound thunks we mprotect the table region of memory
  against execution. Then in our SEGV signal handler we check if we
  are in the mprotected area and if so setup the module stack and
  callstack for the inbound thunk, we adjust the instruction pointer
  register to point to the inbound thunk and we continue execution.
- Add DYNAMICTOP_PTR and tempDoublePtr globals back in.
- Move pc into the module runtime state instead of passing it around.
- Move running of an init_expr into its own function.

README.md, after:

# wac - WebAssembly in C

A Minimal WebAssembly interpreter written in C. Supports the
WebAssembly MVP (minimum viable product) version of the WebAssembly
specification.

There are two different builds of wac:

* **wac**: (WebAssembly in C) Minimal client with an interactive REPL
  mode. Designed to run standalone wasm files compiled with wast2wasm.
  Passes most spec tests apart from some multi-module import/export
  tests.
* **wace**: (WebAssembly in C with Emscripten) Client with host
  library/memory integration. Designed to run wasm code that has been
  built using Emscripten (using `-s SIDE_MODULE=1`).

## Prerequisites

To build wac and wace you need a 32-bit version of gcc and 32-bit
versions of SDL2 and libedit. On 64-bit Ubuntu/Debian these can be
installed like this:

```
dpkg --add-architecture i386
apt-get update
apt-get install lib32gcc-4.9-dev libSDL2-dev:i386 libedit-dev:i386
```

To compile wast source files to binary wasm modules you will need the
wasm-as tool from [Binaryen](https://github.com/WebAssembly/binaryen).
To compile C programs to wasm modules you will need a patched version
of [emscripten](https://github.com/kanaka/emscripten), the incoming
branch of [fastcomp](https://github.com/kripken/emscripten-fastcomp)
and the master branch of
[binaryen](https://github.com/WebAssembly/binaryen).

As an alternative to downloading and building the above tools, the
`kanaka/emscripten` docker image (1.7GB) has a 32-bit gcc
compiler/libraries, emscripten, and binaryen preinstalled. The docker
image can be started with appropriate file mounts like this:

```
docker run -v `pwd`:/wac -w /wac -it kanaka/emscripten bash
```

All the build commands below can be run within the docker container.


## wac usage

Build wac:

```bash
$ make wac
```

Use `wast2wasm` to compile a simple wast program to a wasm:

```bash
$ make examples_wast/arith.wasm
```

Now load the compiled wasm file and invoke some functions:

```bash
$./wac examples_wast/arith.wasm add 2 3
0x5:i32
$./wac examples_wast/arith.wasm mul 7 8
0x38:i32
```

wac also supports a very simple REPL (read-eval-print-loop) mode that
runs commands in the form of `FUNC ARG...`:

```
$ ./wac --repl examples_wast/arith.wasm
> sub 10 5
0x5:i32
> div 13 4
0x3:i32
```

## wace usage

Build wace:

```bash
$ make wace
```

Use emscripten/binaryen to compile some simple C programs and run them
using wace:

```bash
$ make examples_c/hello1.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello1.wasm
hello world

$ make examples_c/hello2.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello2.wasm
hello malloc people

$ make examples_c/hello_sdl.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/hello_sdl.wasm
INFO: OpenGL shaders: ENABLED
INFO: Created renderer: opengl
# Blue Window appears for 2 seconds.
Done.

$ make examples_c/triangle.wasm
$ ./wace examples_c/triangle.wasm
# A colorfully shaded triangle is rendered
```

## Running WebAssembly spec tests

wac includes a `runtest.py` test driver which can be used for running
tests from the WebAssembly specification.

Check out the spec:

```
git clone https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec
```

Run the `func.wast` test file (to test function calls) from the spec:

```
./runtest.py --wast2wasm /path/to/wast2wasm --interpreter ./wac spec/test/core/func.wast
```


## License

MPL-2.0
